History

Early history

Ancient China was the first country in the world that implemented a nationwide standardized test, which was called the
imperial examination. The main purpose of this examination was to select able candidates for specific governmental
positions.[Advanced Level Examination, Chinese Language and Culture, Paper 1A] The imperial examination was established
by the Sui dynasty in 605 AD and was later abolished by the Qing dynasty 1300 years later in 1905.
England had adopted this examination system in 1806 to select specific candidates for positions in Her Majesty's Civil
Service, modeled on the Chinese imperial examination.[Bodde, D., Chinese Ideas in the West] This examination system was
later applied to education and it started to influence other parts of the world as it became a prominent standard (e.g.
regulations to prevent the markers from knowing the identity of candidates), of delivering standardised tests.

Modern era

Civil service

From the mid 19th century, universities began to institute written examinations to assess the aptitude of the pupils.
This is an excerpt from the 1842 Tripos examination in Cambridge University. As the profession transitioned to the
modern mass-education system, the style of examination became fixed, with the stress on standardized papers to be sat by
large numbers of students. Leading the way in this regard was the burgeoning Civil Service that began to move toward a
meritocratic basis for selection in the mid 19th century in England.

British civil service was influenced by the imperial examinations system and meritocratic system of China. Thomas Taylor
Meadows, Britain's consul in Guangzhou, China argued in his Desultory Notes on the Government and People of China,
published in 1847, that "the long duration of the Chinese empire is solely and altogether owing to the good government
which consists in the advancement of men of talent and merit only," and that the British must reform their civil service
by making the institution meritocratic.[Bodde, Derke. "China: A Teaching Workbook". Columbia University.] As early as in
1806, the Honourable East India Company established a college near London to train and examine administrators of the
Company's territories in India.[Bodde 2005] Examinations for the Indian 'civil service'- a term coined by the Company –
were introduced in 1829.[Mark W. Huddleston, William W. Boyer (1996). The Higher Civil Service in the United States:
Quest for Reform. University of Pittsburgh Press. ISBN 9780822974734.]

In 1853 the Chancellor of the Exchequer William Gladstone, commissioned Sir Stafford Northcote and Charles Trevelyan to
look into the operation and organisation of the Civil Service. Influenced by the ancient Chinese Imperial Examination,
the Northcote–Trevelyan Report of 1854 made four principal recommendations: that recruitment should be on the basis of
merit determined through standardized written examination, that candidates should have a solid general education to
enable inter-departmental transfers, that recruits should be graded into a hierarchy and that promotion should be
through achievement, rather than 'preferment, patronage or purchase'.[Kazin, Edwards, and Rothman (2010), 142.] A Civil
Service Commission was also set up in 1855 to oversee open recruitment and end patronage, and most of the other
Northcote–Trevelyan recommendations were implemented over some years.[Walker, David (2003-07-09). "Fair game". The
Guardian. London. Retrieved 2003-07-09.]

The Northcote–Trevelyan model of meritocratic examination remained essentially stable for a hundred years. This was a
tribute to its success in removing corruption, delivering public services (even under the stress of two world wars), and
responding effectively to political change. It also had a great international influence and was adapted by members of
the Commonwealth. The Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act established a similar system in the United States.
